In this movie, I will show you how to create this animated custom typography, using the Merge Shape Tools.
As the first step, I'm going to insert a video of clouds running through the sky. I navigate to the
Insert tab,
I choose 'Video',
'Video on My PC...',
now, I select the file and click 'Insert'.
Next, let's press Ctrl Shift and drag to increase the dimension and keep the aspect ratio.
Now, make sure the video is selected, navigate to the Playback tab and change the settings.
I want this video to 'Loop until Stopped'.
Now it's time to create the textbox.
I drag and put some text inside.
Let's type:
'Custom typography'.
I want to change the font type into 'Franklin Gothic Heavy',
and apply the upper case.
I also increase the font size to 90 points.
Next, I'm going to align this textbox center and middle with my video.
OK, now let's select the slide and press Ctrl D to create a copy.
It will come in handy later on.
Now it's time to use the Merge Shape Tools.
I navigate to my first slide,
select the video, then press Shift and select the textbox.
I navigate to the Merge Shape Tool command,
and choose 'Intersect'.
What remains is an overlapping part, let's press Shift F5 to turn on this slide show and see
the final effect.
I would like to show you another interesting formatting option.
Let's jump to the copied slide.
Actually, you can not only animate the whole textbox, but each letter separately.
Let's do this!
I select the video first,
then the text,
I navigate the Merge Shape Tools command,
and this time I click at 'Fragment'.
Great!
Now I press Shift F5 to turn on slideshow and see the final effect.
I click on the first letter, and as you can see, the video goes on, whereas the other letters are static.
Let's press escape to abort.
Another great advantage of 'Fragment' tool is that you have control over every single letter and you
can adjust it the way you need for your presentation.
To sum up, the Merge Shape Tools can be used in many creative ways.
I highly recommend you to utilize them in your daily work in order to impress your audience even more.